Now that you have some background on what a DApp is,
it's time to build your own.
By the end of this video,
you'll have created and deployed your first DApp.
More specifically, we'll be deploying a smart contract,
but we'll be able to interact with it similar to a normal DApp.
To start, head over to Remix using the link below the video.
Remix is an IDE for creating smart contracts on the Ethereum block chain.
It has features that allow you to write,
deploy, and interact with smart contracts.
So, let's get started with the contract for ourselves.
Once on Remix on the left,
you'll see a file manager that includes the contract you're currently looking at.
Will be making our own contract,
so you can either delete the existing one or create a new file.
So, create the file and name it myMessage.sol,
Sol is the extension used for any solidity file you create.
Next, copy the code from below the video and paste it into your editor,
or just type out what you see here.
Will go over many of the details of this language in a later lesson,
but for now here's a quick overview.
This contract has two functions,
one that allows you to set a message,
and another that allows you to get the message back that you'd set.
The contract name is designated here,
and looks similar to a class from other languages.
Each variable needs to be given a type,
in this case it's a string.
There's a few identifiers you can set on functions as
shown here like public, view, and returns.
These are telling us that the function is publicly available,
is only met to view information,
and that it returns a string.
Finally, take a look at the top line here.
Pragma is set at the top of
every solidity contract to tell the compiler which version to use.
In this case, it's 0.4.24.
The carat before the version is saying to look for
the most recent version of solidity starting from that version.
If you remove the carat,
you're stating that this should only be run using that exact version.
For our contract, that's it.
We have a working smart contract that allows us to set a message and get it back.
Don't worry if the details of the language sounded a little strange for now,
you'll learn a ton more about this language in our introduction to solidity.
Right now, what's important is that we deploy this contract.
To do this, go over to the right and click Start to compile.
This compiles your contract.
Next, go over to the Run tab.
Here, you'll see a lot of details,
but to start at the top is the environment.
From the environment drop-down select JavaScript VM.
This will let you deploy your contract from
a JavaScript virtual machine that Remix provides you.
Next, select message from the dropdown here and you're ready to deploy.
To do that, click Deploy,
and now you just deployed your first smart contract.
Under deployed contract, you'll see the contract.
You can open up the drop-down provide it to see the functions that are available.
Sila, get message and set message right here.
To set a message, type anything you'd like in quotes to make it a string.
I'll type, "hey ethereum",
and click Set message.
This message has now been stored on the JavaScript VM.
You can read the message you store it by calling the other function, Get message.
Click Get Message and you'll see the current message.
By updating this message,
you can store new values and call those too if you'd like.
One thing you may have noticed is the terminal down here
that's registering information each time you call a function.
Here's what's happening. Nothing gets in or out of
the Ethereum blockchain without being logged as a transaction.
Every time you call a function that's creating
a transaction that's either getting or setting the data you request.
By opening up the transaction,
you can see the transaction hash,
who it was from, who it's to,
the cost, and other details that you'll learn more about later.
At the top is the transaction address that initiated the transaction.
That value is coming from over here.
You can set a new address,
call the function again,
and see that you now have a transaction that came from that address instead.
So, congratulations on creating your first official DApp, sort of.
The smart contract is at the core of what makes DApp,
but the surrounding tools that take this functionality out of Remix and Interior
users hands is an enormous part of what gives the smart contract any actual value.
To do this effectively,
you'll need to learn how to work with data on a blockchain,
bringing this data to your local environment, and set up a front end.
You'll also need to know how to deploy to the main network with your final DApp,
connect to the test network for testing,
and even how to connect to local blockchains when you're first getting started.
For that reason, we're going to spend the next lessons getting very
comfortable with the tooling and ecosystem surrounding the creation,
testing, and deployment of applications.
That way, when you learn more about solidity and smart contracts in the later lessons,
you'll be more than ready to turn those into
fully functional DApps that you can share with others.